README.md, before:

# Armenian Language MVP

This repository contains a minimal React + Flask project for experimenting with Armenian language learning tools.

- Includes basic trainers for the alphabet, words and phrases with EN/RU translation switch.
## Frontend
- Vite + React 18 + TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

To develop:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

## Backend
- Python 3.11 Flask API
- `/tts` endpoint uses Google Cloud Text-to-Speech

To run locally:
```bash
cd api
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

### Google Cloud credentials
The Text-to-Speech client requires credentials specified by `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`. Create a service account and download a JSON key, then set the environment variable before running the API:
```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key.json
```
See the [official docs](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/before-you-begin) for full setup instructions.

### Voice configuration
The TTS voice can be changed via environment variables:
- `TTS_LANGUAGE_CODE` (default `ru-RU`)
- `TTS_VOICE_NAME` (default `ru-RU-Wavenet-A`)

### Docker
A `.dockerignore` file keeps the API image small. Build with:
```bash
cd api
docker build -t am-lang-api .
```

Commit message:

docs: add note about tailwind postcss install

README.md, after:

# Armenian Language MVP

This repository contains a minimal React + Flask project for experimenting with Armenian language learning tools.

- Includes basic trainers for the alphabet, words and phrases with EN/RU translation switch.
## Frontend
- Vite + React 18 + TypeScript
- Tailwind CSS for styling
- React Router for navigation

To develop:
```bash
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```
If you see an error mentioning `@tailwindcss/postcss` when starting Vite,
double-check that `npm install` completed successfully. The Tailwind PostCSS
plugin is installed as a development dependency and is required for builds to
work correctly.

## Backend
- Python 3.11 Flask API
- `/tts` endpoint uses Google Cloud Text-to-Speech

To run locally:
```bash
cd api
pip install -r requirements.txt
python main.py
```

### Google Cloud credentials
The Text-to-Speech client requires credentials specified by `GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS`. Create a service account and download a JSON key, then set the environment variable before running the API:
```bash
export GOOGLE_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS=/path/to/key.json
```
See the [official docs](https://cloud.google.com/text-to-speech/docs/before-you-begin) for full setup instructions.

### Voice configuration
The TTS voice can be changed via environment variables:
- `TTS_LANGUAGE_CODE` (default `ru-RU`)
- `TTS_VOICE_NAME` (default `ru-RU-Wavenet-A`)

### Docker
A `.dockerignore` file keeps the API image small. Build with:
```bash
cd api
docker build -t am-lang-api .
```
